this is not what they're telling us we
can start to heal some of these chronic
lifestyle conditions that are so rampant
with tiny doses of this it's like
opening a window of opportunity for
somebody to completely change their life
Dr Tina Moore is a distinguished
naturopathic physician whose
groundbreaking work is leading the way
in combating some of the biggest
diseases in medical conditions that our
modern world currently faces everyone's
saying that OIC is evil this is the
worst thing ever but a lot of people are
being overdosed for weight loss and this
leads to a very high risk for side
effects but o done correctly has all
these other benefits that have nothing
to do with weight loss and they are just
mind-blowing healing and reversing type
1 diabetes Parkin and Alzheimer's we've
got studies showing really positive
impacts on depression and anxiety and
potentially reducing cancer risks it
shifts your gut microbiome to a more
favorable microbiome and then my
daughter PCOS symptoms reverse which is
probably one of the number one drivers
of infertility in young women I mean
holy sh and I've seen it with my
patients and I've seen it with myself
cuz I lived with chronic pain my whole
life
and I Remember by the end of 2021
thinking if this doesn't get better I
think I'm going to kill myself but I
started myself at a tiny little dose and
the destruction fell
away Dr Tina Mo what would you scream to
the world right now we are eating a
chemical storm of a food supply young
women are bathing in toxic chemicals
through their beauty habits microbiome
disruption from all the antibiotics I
joke that humans are going extinct but I
think it's really happening if we don't
write this ship but there's things we
can do that are non-negotiable that have
nothing to do with drugs your six
pillars for a pain-free life yes first
of all I
would congratulations diio gang we've
made some progress 63% of you that
listen to this podcast regularly don't
subscribe which is down from
69% our goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guest get
thank you and enjoy this
[Music]
episode Dr Tina
more who are you by profession
and what is the mission that you're
on so I'm a naturopathic physician and a
chiropractor I don't know if you have
naturopathic Physicians here in the UK
we are trained formally in a four-year
medical program and we take national
board exams North American I should say
and we are taught root cause medicine so
the functional medicine Community
basically appropriated our medicine many
years ago if you've heard of functional
you've had doctors on there are
functional medicine practitioners and
it's the idea that the body can heal
itself we are looking to restore
homeostasis in the individual so why are
things arai I'm less interested in
someone's diagnosis as much as I am why
are they presenting with that symptom
picture what's going on and I was
mentored up by one of the finest
naturopathic physicians in our
profession over the past many decades
and he died of cancer in 2013 and I took
over his practice he was a force to be
reckoned with so I carry that flag with
me and he was a truth tell and he
was often ostracized by our profession
for being ahead of the game and you know
being ahead of the story usually and I
learned so much from him about metabolic
health and how metabolic Health was
really the root cause driver of so many
diseases life style induced diseases
that we're seeing in on a worldwide
level can you give me just a bit of a
glimpse and for someone that's never
heard the term naturopathic physician
before which which I guess means
naturopathic doctor right what is the
difference between like a normal doctor
and a naturopathic doctor so a
traditional allopathic physician is what
you're going to be familiar with with an
MD they're trained in a system where
algorithmically they are taught to find
disease processes and then they have a
stand of care that they follow which is
to prescribe X Y and Z yeah for the
standard of care and that's not how they
always were naturopathic medicine was
born out of old timey European MDS so
back in Germany and you know long time
ago when we didn't have all the fancy
lab tests and we didn't have all the
fancy Pharmaceuticals we were treating
people to bolster their health really
you know it's taking you as an
individual finding out what makes Mak
you tick and then how can we optimize
your health overall symptoms and illness
Falls away when you treat the body when
you treat the individual in front of you
so I don't treat diseases I treat people
that's the difference whereas in
allopathic medicine they are very
obsessed with
the diagnosis and then what pills do we
apply to that
diagnosis which is different than why is
this person presenting this way and what
can we do to help them along the Journey
of optimizing their health so those
symptoms fall away and you you said you
took over a clinic there yeah what kind
of patients do you see in that practice
did you see in that practice and what
was the sort of variety of illness or
disorder or disease that you came across
so his practice was predominantly
muscular skeletal medicine so it was uh
chronic joint dysfunction and he did a
specialized type of medicine called
Prolotherapy and regenerative injection
therapies the modern version of that is
stem cells you've probably heard of stem
cell injections I'm sure everyone has by
this point plate rich plasma is another
one and that's what he specialized in
but it's not just about shooting fancy
substances into people's joints you have
to get the person into a healing State
first so you need them optimized so that
they want to heal so that means hormones
that means nutrition that means
lifestyle those things are far more
critical to get lined up than it is to
start shooting fancy substances into
their joints even if those substances
come from their own body even if we're
sucking out their own stem cells and
we're sucking out their own blood and
we're using those it's far more
important that you get the person in an
optimized state so that they want to
heal so I you know I'd ask patients if
you cut your fingertip off or just
sliced yourself terribly do you heal
well and if they said yes they were a
wonderful candidate for those types of
injections if they did not then they
weren't because they weren't in a good
healing State at that point so my job
was to get them in healing State and
then to apply the treatments what is a
healing State it's when you fall down
and you don't fall apart it's when you
get sick with something and you get over
it it's when you cut yourself and you
heal readily and you don't you know
succumb to terrible infections and I
think we've ended up as a
society where the norm has become to be
somewhat imuno compromised I think a lot
of people are walking around not not you
younger folks but at least in the US a
lot of people are walking around in this
sort of semi imuno compromis State much
of it is due to metabolic dysfunction
which is something he was always
drilling into me what is metabolic
dysfunction it is when
your metabolic Health at its core is the
ability to take in the foods that you
eat and assimilate them properly so if
you were to eat proteins and fats and
carbohydrates you would turn them into
the fuel that they need to be you would
turn them into the proteins in your body
that they need to be when that goes Ary
which
is almost 100% of us adults at this
point from what the data is showing
things don't go so well and so what that
leads to this metabolic dysfunctional
pattern leads to insulin resistance
which is essentially pre-diabetes which
is the long game into di type two
diabetes and we've completely normalized
that process at least during my lifetime
I've watched that happen I'm 50 years
old so I've watched this happen
especially since I got into medicine
working for my mentor Dr Rick watching
folks go down this pathway of
normalization into type two diabetes and
it's not until they get there that the
doctor says oh you have type two
diabetes we got to do something about it
here's your pills and there's 15 to 20
years of leg work that can be done
before that happens and that's where I
think naturopathic medicine really
shines and where preventative functional
medicine all of us are in the same camp
we're all doing the same thing we're
really trying to just help the patient
in front of us not so much the disease
process we're trying to make sure that
the person's optimized so that they can
become more resilient so that their
immune system works properly so that the
foods that they eat are assimilated
properly and they don't end up in a
cellular millu of disaster is is there
like a fundamental belief that you have
about human beings how we heal how to be
healthy um and the body I guess that you
think is in contrast or conflict to the
current system like a set of fundamental
underlying beliefs because we all have
like a set of sunglasses on our lens of
how we see the world yes and what I've
obviously learned from doing this
podcast is everyone seems to be wearing
slightly different lenses M you know as
to their view on health this the
healthare system humans healing Society
what are those sort of fundamental
underlying beliefs that you have that's
a great question I think that in
traditional naturopathic medicine the
purist would tell you that there's no
room for pharmaceuticals and that you
must only go with nature the healing
power of nature stoke the individual's
Vitality that's very important in
naturopathic medicine we're looking at
the Vitality of an individual
some would call that an aura I think
that's a little too esoteric it is when
you look at someone are they are they
glowing Vitality do they look healthy
you can see it I know you can everyone
can see it when you actually point it
out to people do they look healthy or
are they sort of walking around in
grayscale right and I think a lot of
people these days are unfortunately
walking around in grayscale because
they've sort of you know we've all been
listening to the mainstream narrative
and the food suppli is busted this has
been going on for decades my mentor was
talking about this decades ago nobody
was listening and now people I think are
starting to get hip to it because we've
got the internet we've got podcasts like
yours and mine where we're trying to get
the you know the information out and
it's the inherent ability of the body to
heal however I do think there's a place
for pharmaceuticals and I have a license
to prescribe in the state of Oregon and
I'm not afraid to use it because in my
mind and the way that my mentor taught
me is somebody comes in and they're on
this many Pharmaceuticals I mean I'm 50
the average person my age is on five
different Pharmaceuticals at this point
which is crazy to me and I don't know
what the stats are in the UK but I can't
imagine they're tremendously better so
they come in on all these drugs and
their lifestyle is in somewhat of
shambles and so my job is to optimize
lifestyle so that I can get these down
to the lowest or to nil ideally we could
get them off but if they need a little
something then great I was also taught
by him to implement longevity medicine
which is hormones and making sure that
people are able to maintain physiologic
levels of optimal hormone function as we
age which is really important to aging
well and so it's just kind of a mix of
using the best of Nature and that
science has to offer and treating the
person in front of you of all the case
studies that you have in your mind
experience and in your past is there one
that you are most PR of it was
2019 my career was really taking off and
my mom kept telling me that she didn't
feel good and I was like my mom is a
rock my mom's my mom's like comes up to
he on me I call her my little mama and
she just chugs along and I was like oh
she'll be fine she's like no I really
don't feel good and I kept blowing her
off cuz I was too busy and I was on
planes all the time and traveling all
the time and I was never home and my mom
came to visit me at my house and she
came out of the bathroom and she said
she's like
I like I can't hold my bowels like I I
can't I'm so sick and so I immediately
started testing her and she had Crohn's
disease and my grandmother had died of
Crohn's Disease and several people in
her side of the family had died of
Crohn's Disease and I just hadn't put
two and two together that my mom may
have had but she had all the symptoms
like growing up she had all the symptoms
and I just never put it together and it
was hitting her it it rears its ugly
head when folks hit their Elder years
like in their 70s they call it you know
colitis of the elderly and people
basically get it and die they just [__]
themselves to death and so my mom was in
it and I was like oh no and I pulled out
everything I had and I have access to
some incredible
regenerative substances that you know
most people don't and I can use them off
label in ways that you know in most
people don't even think to do and I
threw everything I had at her because I
knew if I'd sent her into the alpath
system they were going to do a
colonoscopy on her and what that does is
they flush you out before they do the
colonoscopy and if I if her Flora were
to get flushed out of her gut at that
point I don't think she would have come
out of the hospital because they end up
getting secondary infection
and so I I pulled her out of it I got
her out of the really acute phase and
then I immediately referred her to my
colleague who is a brilliant physician
naturopathic physician and I was like
take over I'm not I don't want to manage
my mom but I needed to get her I I knew
that it was the skill set that I had in
particular that was going to pull her
out of that and so we did it and she
came to me one day after she was better
and she was stabilized and she said you
saved my life and at the time I was
really bitching about my half a million
dollarss of student loan debt that was
just compounding and compounding and
compounding and I was really frustrated
by the fact that I couldn't get on top
of it and I had at that point spent like
$100,000 paying off my loans and they
were still at the same level I mean it
just criminal that system and she said
you saved my life it was worth every
penny you know and then my daughter
turned around who had just gone through
a very difficult time herself and she
said you saved my life too Mom this year
and I was
like well that was what it cost to gain
the knowledge that I gained to save my
daughter and my mother and then my dad
was like you saved my You' bailed me out
many times and I was like okay that's so
it was kind of um it was just kind of
ironic that was the end of my big
clinical career you know when I had my
big brick and mortar with the high
volume patient base and all of I still
see patients but not at that level and
so that was
really I was like thank God I had the
knowledge and the tools and the knowhow
to and the fearlessness to apply some of
the therapies that I applied the way I
did to in terms of before and after what
sort of picture of Health would I
observe if I saw her on that day when
she walked out of the toilet versus you
know after the the variety of different
therapies that you applied well this is
a good story because she was super gray
and super thin and my mom has always
been kind of you know hippie and curvy
and I mean she's we're built different
she's she's the more you know um she's
the curvy one and she was just ra thin
and gray and all of her hair was falling
out I mean she just I can't believe I
missed it I can't believe it went on
that long that I didn't see it and I I
still carry guilt to this day and I
always apologize to her for being too
busy to I can't believe I let my stress
level get so high that I didn't see it
you
know and then she ended up on a slew of
pharmaceuticals that were too expensive
to get in the United States so she had
to get them from Canada so her
naturopathic physician is managing her
so she's getting medication very
expensive medication from Canada and
she's doing okay
and then in the last nine months I put
her on the tiniest droplet of seacu tide
which is a zic and she is phenomenal all
of her joint Pain's gone her guts
completely regulated and normalized she
is down on a minimal dose of this
medication that she's getting from
Canada she's still taking it but it's a
tiny dose her cognition has improved
significantly because through this
process she was starting to get
low-grade dementia whether she realizes
it or not my daughter and I were
noticing it we were like is Grandma okay
and so when people come at me for
talking about micro doing OIC I will not
back down because my mom is solid and
it's the tiniest amount and she even
said to me just the other day before I
was coming on the show I was telling her
I was stressed I was trying to get ready
for the trip you know overseas and she
said you know I was so stressed out
before you put me on seacu tide because
my dad's health is very poor and she
said I was so stressed that I really
felt like it was going to do me in like
I was at capacity and you put me on this
acuti and all of the anxiety and stress
just dropped away and I was like that's
cuz it's calming to neuroinflammation
which is secondary to Chronic
gastrointestinal diseases when the gut
is inflamed the brain's inflamed so she
was dealing with all this chronic brain
inflammation all this gut inflammation
and she's on this tiny little dose of
OIC and she's very solid and she's her
color's back she's filled in again she's
curvy again she's eating normally she
does I mean she couldn't eat hardly
anything ever for years and so now she's
back to eating very normally she's still
got to watch what she eats but you know
it's not a free-for-all but she is she's
back the other I guess glaringly obvious
case study for your work but also I
think many of the things we're going to
talk about like micro doing and zenek is
you yeah because as I read through your
story from your childhood years through
your teenage years and even in
University um and then even later into
your career and I guess also now because
you mentioned that you still deal with
chronic
pain you are your own case study I am
can you give me a view of of the
struggles you've been through in terms
of your health um and really where that
started what was the sort of first first
instance where you experienced the pain
the trauma etc etc so I always had
stomach AES always since I was a child
always and was hit with really pretty
severe anxiety I didn't know what it was
at the time but it was anxiety and and I
started getting chronic pain in my
teenage years and I out of nowhere when
I was about 15 the lights went out on me
I just became extremely suicidal and
depressed out of nowhere I mean it was
like somebody just switched a lever I
had moved to Oregon from Southern
California I do believe that the lack of
light was massive I think that people
really I'm really starting to appreciate
it's taken me all these decades but
light deficiency is a huge issue that
we're not no one's talking about if few
people are but you're talking about like
vitamin D production as well right there
because there oh that was huge so that
took years you know nobody was talking
about that it was not until decades
later I was sitting in naturopathic
medicine school I was in college and um
I think I was in year three of that
program and this doctor Dr Alex Vasquez
came to lecture at Ground rounds and he
started talking about vitamin D and
sunlight deficiency and I had been kind
of low-grade looking into sunlight
deficiency because it turns out the
hospitals of your really would optimize
sunlight and they would have sun porches
I don't know if you've seen the photos
they would roll all the kids out and all
of the convalescing ill people out I
mean that's how people survived the 1918
flu was the ones who got sunlight and
the ones who were able to go to these
hospitals and they would build the
hospitals to optimize light exposure
inside the board because they knew it
kept the bacteria counts down and I mean
even if they didn't know what bacteria
was or what was happening they knew that
when sunlight penetrated people were you
know healthier and things were cleaner
and infections didn't seem to spread and
so I hit my 20s and long story short I
was rocking psoriatic arthritis for
decades before I ever figured it out and
it really culminated for me I went
through a lot of chronic pain I went
through a lot of misery I went through a
lot of autoimmune issues and then I got
everything dialed in I thought I had it
handled interestingly autoimmune disease
will flare and will recede and flare and
recede and it's kind of on Q like you'll
see it around 10 to 11 years old
especially with things like Crohn's
disease you'll see these little glimmers
pop up for kids and then it goes away
and then you'll see them present in
their teenage years and often they'll
present with you know mental emotional
issues and not so much the
gastrointestinal issues but it's the
same process going on in the body and
then it'll go away and then it might
flare again postpartum because of that
big hormone surge that happens with
child birth and then it'll go away and
then it'll come back with a vengeance in
menopause as the hormones again shift
majorly and that's what was happening
for me and then all of the stress of
pushing Back Against The Narrative
really caught up with me and I was
nothing that I knew to do was working so
the whole protocol I put my mother
through was not working for me nothing
was touching it and that is how I came
to start studying glp1 Agonist I started
I was researching anything that would
calm neural inflammation because at the
end of the day diseases down here are
coming from here and when the brain's on
fire and the brain's inflamed the immune
system gets sent completely sideways and
the
Downstream processes culminate in
autoimmune disease pain hormonal
disruption you name it and so I that's
how I ended up I literally put into
Google glp1 and neuroinflammation and
all these studies showed up and that's
what got me going two questions there so
glp1 is a zmek so it's yes it's the
peptide that the body makes naturally we
make it in the brain and we make it in
the gut but if somebody's had a life of
chronic gut inflammation I don't think
they're making it so well in the gut and
OIC is just a it's several versions down
in the generational line of these
peptides called Inc cretans they're um
they're a whole family that started way
back 20 some years ago and they've just
gotten a little bit nicer with less side
effects and longer halflife as we go
along the journey so the last decent one
was Lorac glutide although compliance
was low because it made people feel
really terrible and they had to inject
it too frequently I think it was daily
or I think that's how it is still and
then seacu is a newer generation tepati
is a newer generation and so they're
they're just getting a little more
potent and I don't mean potent in a
pharmaceutical way I mean they're
starting to realize how these work and
they're they're getting craftier with
not only keeping them in the body for
the time that they need so the halflife
gets longer but they're finding in this
Suite of signaling peptide hormones that
are involved with app appetite and with
metabolic health and Insulin secretion
and insulin sensitivity they're finding
better and better ways to combine these
to get optimal function with the least
amount of side effects okay and at that
moment in your life where you started
Googling glp1 and inflammation
Etc if I was a fly on the
wall in your life at that moment what
would I have what would I have seen what
was the sort of picture of desperation
or you know so 2021 I spent most of that
year on my back cuz I was in so much
pain it was crazy and my husband when he
met me he met me in 2019 and we got
married in
2020 and I told him I had chronic pain
and I told him I had a funny immune
system but he had never seen it like
he'd never seen it full force and he got
to see it that year he was like wow so
this is what chronic pain looks like I
mean it's it was devastating and my
spine was fusing and I'm active I do
platies and I dance a lot and I hula
hoop and I roller skate and I lift
weights and I'm you know moving and
shaking I was not moving and shaking in
2020 I was 2021 I was flat on my back on
the couch and I Remember by the end of
thinking if this doesn't get
better I think I'm going to kill myself
like I couldn't do it anymore like I
just couldn't live with that level of
pain and my spine was fusing and I could
feel it and I kept trying to tell
everyone something is
wrong and my chiropractor friends were
great but they knew muscular skeletal
medicine and my naturopathic friends
were great but they knew systemic
medicine and I I needed me I needed my
brain on the case like someone who had
both right and I just couldn't get on
top of it and then finally I I don't
know how or why I I went kind of into
the story oh I know what it was I broke
out with psoriasis I broke out with
psoriasis all over my scalp and I was
like oh this is what this is this is
ptic arthritis which turns out to be one
of the most painful muscular skeletal
autoimmune conditions you can have it
it's worse than rheumatoid arthritis on
the Pain Scale from what the studies
shows so I was like okay now that I know
what I'm dealing with what can I do so I
started pulling out all the stops and
all the things I knew to do lotos now
trone exomes you name it I was doing
everything it really wasn't bringing it
down or it would work for a minute and
it would it would it would wear off and
so I was getting desperate and my I have
a podcast and my podcast producer said
you got to do an episode on OIC and I
was like I don't
I don't like talking about weight loss I
really don't like talking about weight
loss it people get so emotionally
triggered and it's a big topic and it's
nuanced and it's not as simple as people
want to make it be and in my functional
medicine world people want to make it so
simplistic just exercise more and eat
less and take these supplements and
it'll go carnivore and it'll all go away
it's not that simple there's genetic
components there's brain components
there's epigenetic components and it was
like the Pandora's Box I didn't want to
open and so finally I was like okay fine
I'm going to start researching these and
I was sitting I was laying on the couch
on my back and it's 2023 at this point
but I'm still having to take frequent
breaks right on my back so I'd go
exercise and I'd have to lay down for
three hours so I'm Googling and I look
up glp1 and neuroinflammation because I
always start there I always start with
pain
neuroinflammation and immune activation
I always want to know what any substance
does in those because that's my world
right because that's what I did in
clinical practice
and I googled that my husband's in the
kitchen and I was like holy [__] and I
turned the phone around and I was like
look at this and he's like I don't know
what that means babe and I was like this
is not what they're telling us like this
is not what because that was at the
height of mainstream media and all the
clickbait headlines and you know Mom is
overdosing on OIC and people's stomachs
are paralyzed forever and I was like so
then I started of course looking at all
that like is that for real like are they
really getting gastroparesis forever no
so I start going into all the data and I
just that was it it was like the rabbit
hole and it that was May of 2023 and
I've been kneee in it ever since just
consumed by any and all information and
then of course everybody start I started
doing podcasts about it on my show and
everyone's sending me all the
information and hundreds of people are
reaching out to me telling me these
really profound stories and changes in
their health that have nothing to do
with weight loss or diabetes and so
that was it I was like I got I got bit
by some kind of um well you know I don't
like
propaganda I don't like when I hear
everybody saying the same thing it makes
me suspicious you know when everyone's
running in One Direction screaming this
is evil this is this is this is you know
the worst thing ever I was like I don't
know this has been around for 20 some
years not some acuti but this version of
medication this family of medication and
so I don't know I was like I'm not
buying this I'm gonna find out what the
truth is and so I called every doctor I
knew that might use it I called every
pharmacist I knew that might use
it nobody was seeing any of these
horrific side effects like the stories
you were seeing on the media currently
what was that summer that was really it
came to like full height summer of 2023
I think that was when everybody was
losing their minds about it the minute
they started talking about weight loss
people started losing their minds about
it which I find very interesting and
what I was Finding in the literature was
not at all adding up to what I was
hearing and then there were all of these
other benefits that were just
mind-blowing you know benefits on
healing and reversing type 1 diabetes
healing and reversing neurocognitive
conditions like Parkinson's and
Alzheimer's efficacy with alcohol
sensation people who were you know
alcohol abuse syndrome using it for that
people who also o had the this type of
hlb27 it's a genetic propensity towards
these um spondo arthritis is like
psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis
those kinds of things having showing
efficacy for that and as I started
speaking out about it I was getting
messages back from
people telling me their stories hundreds
and hundreds of people telling me their
stories and I and then seeing what was
happening with my patient so I started
applying it to everyone I was treating
for different reasons at different doses
very tiny doses though very little bits
and just seeing really profound changes
in people and I it's not what we're
hearing and I don't think that the way
also that it's being done in the
standard model
is ideal for everyone I think a lot of
people are being dosed too high too fast
and I think a lot of people are being
overdosed because at the end of the day
it's a hormone it's a peptide signaling
hormone and so people are being cranked
up on doses very quickly there's a 16 we
escalation and they go from this amount
to this amount very quickly and in the
journey many people are reporting
horrific gastrointestinal side effects
which are real but it's not the
peptide's fault it's the it's a peptide
at the end of the day as well which is I
can explain what that is yeah if you had
to explain what a zmek is or W go or you
know this this compound is just to a
10-year-old yeah okay how would you
explain it so you eat amino acids you
eat protein and it breaks down into
amino acids yeah and amino acids link up
with peptide bonds into chains called
peptides and then peptides a peptide
bond uh it's just a simplistic bond that
binds two amino acids together so it can
be broken pretty readily with different
enzymes and that's in my body the
peptide bond is in my body yeah so your
body has all these enzymes present and
the amino acids link up very
simplistically into different chains and
then those chains of amino acids are
called peptides and peptides link up to
form proteins and your body is made of
proteins your whole body all of your
tissue is made out of proteins and your
cellular receptors are made out of
proteins everything's made out of
proteins so if you go backwards those
smaller versions are the amino acids I'm
sorry are peptides and the smaller
versions of that yet are the amino acids
so we eat protein we break it down into
amino acids and we reconstruct it into
more protein and so peptides are these
chains of amino acids that we've got all
different typ of therapeutic peptides
and they insert themselves where they
need to go to do what they need to do so
that's it at the end of the day and what
so what's a zek in that is zek is a
peptide it's a peptide and it's made in
our L cells of our gut which line from
the most proximal to the disal small
intestine and it SEC these cells secrete
glp1 in the presence of glucose which is
sugar when we eat sugary Foods or food
well all carbohydrates break down into
glucose so whenever we eat glucose and
they respond actually when a bolus of
food so the mechanism of a blob of food
going through our guts actually gets
these cells to
trigger however I have tested thousands
of people's guts in my clinical practice
in my clinical Lifetime and people's
guts are a mess most people have
compromised digestion so I don't think
their L cells are working optimally in
many cases and we also have literature
good solid science to show that those
who are suffering with obesity type 2
diabetes and fatty liver and that whole
metabolic
syndrome you know groupage those folks
are glp1 deficient so when I take a zmek
it's causing my gut basically my body to
release glp1 No it is the glp1 oh it is
the glp1 yep so we're not causing the
gut to do anything we are mimicking the
actual peptide okay so it's got the same
sort of atomic structure as AAL so my
body thinks it's gp1
I guess it is G as far as things are
concerned and then the gp1 is doing what
to me well so it's STi for instance Is
bioidentical to the glp1 that our body
secretes so it's the same except it's
been tweaked with a little bit they've
added some lipids to it to make the
halflife longer so it lasts longer so
normally glp1 would be secreted from our
cells it's also secreted from our brain
which we got to get into because that's
where I got really excited it's secreted
from our body and it's broken down very
quickly and so these newer versions of
these incretin hormones or incretin
peptides are broken down at a slower
Pace okay and then what does glp1
do it does all kinds of cool things so
it most notably in what it's known for
is to decrease appetite and that happens
centrally in the brain yeah it slows
gastric motility so it slows things down
so you feel Fuller for longer that's at
higher doses that doesn't always need to
happen and that is what it is known for
and it also has induction of it it plays
with the cells of your pancreas and it
gets them to secrete insulin at the
right time and so most folks are walking
around in some degree of insulin
resistance as they age and that is the
beginning glimmers of type two diabetes
and so gp1s help that process it helps
sensitize the cells to the insulin and
it helps treat the insulin when
needed and when you were
struggling in
2023 yeah you started taking a
zmek SM magti one of these Brands yeah
um what impact did it have on
you so I got a compounded version
because I thought that the starting dose
let's back up the brand name the
prescription that most people are
familiar with are these little
pre-filled pens yeah and the pens only
come in certain doses you can't control
the dosage you start at the lowest dose
that they offer and then you have to
escalate from there or if your doctor's
cool they won't make you escalate too
much but either way you don't get to go
lower than the dose that it starts and
it starts at 0.25
milligrams I thought that that was way
too high especially for someone like
myself I'm very metabolically optimized
I have good muscle mass uh I have very
good bone density I have my labs look
beautiful I'm hormonally optimized I'm
on bioidentical hormone replacement I'm
very active I exercise often my sleep is
good
and I thought my thinking was I wonder
if some of us are actually a little glp1
deficient from whether a life
of not because we have obesity diabetes
and fatty liver there's different
reasons why those folks would be
deficient insulin at high levels itself
will actually induce some glp1
deficiency it'll it'll decrease glp1
signaling my thinking was I wonder if
folks are just genetically or maybe we
got ourselves there through chronic
illness
whatever it may be I wonder if there's a
little bit of a deficiency what if I
supplement this peptide like I would a
hormone which the way I do that is I
give people the lowest dose necessary to
achieve a physiologic impact that's
favorable and then I cap it so if you
need a little bit of thyroid the
standard model would have you take well
you know the algorithm says you have
hypothyroidism so we're going to give
you this much and we're going to be this
exact drug in my world we compound what
we need maybe you need a little more T3
than T4 Maybe you need a tiny dose maybe
we titrate you up until you start
getting a little symptomatic and we're
like let's back it down a little so my
thinking was to use it that way so I
asked everyone I knew are you using this
for anything other than appetite
suppression or weight loss or diabetes
and they all said no nobody really was
none of my colleagues were anyway and
they were all starting at a dose that I
still thought was too high so I started
myself at a tiny little
dose and my first impact was brain
Clarity within days my brain cleared I
can't even explain it um brain fog was
definitely starting to happen I think it
was the psoriatic arthritis and I think
it was the I think it was postco you
know I think our brains all got hit
pretty hard by that and I think it was
chronic stress and I think it was
menopause and I was sort of in this I'm
a high functioning kind of Boss babe and
I couldn't get my work done and my team
was going crazy because I couldn't
remember what I told them and you know
they're calling me and they're like we
already did this we already had this
conversation what is wrong with you so I
was like damn it this isn't going to
work for me I can't rolling the way I'm
rolling and trying to run all my
businesses and have brain fog like this
so that was the first thing I noticed
was Clarity of thought brain fog went
away anxiety immediately dropped which I
didn't even realize I had it just a
calmness took over me which was so
amazing and within two weeks my pain was
down significantly significantly and
what I noticed was everything was
starting to move in pop again so I was
getting Mobility back and by week two I
wanted to move again so this version of
me that just just wanted to like go do
my workout go do my work and then lay
down on my back I wasn't that doing that
anymore and I immediately like signed
back up for Pilates and I found myself
dancing and hula hooping around the
house again and I found myself just
being much more active and slowly but
surely the destruction sort of fell away
because I had been in a pretty
destructive immune process for a couple
years there and it just has it's taken
me I think it's been almost a year now
and it's just slowly but surely dropped
away I also noticed a little bit of
weight loss which I had gained some
weight over the past couple years I
think it was chronic stress was doing a
number on my metabolism and you know you
hit that 50-year old Mark and things get
tough so I had some weight loss fall
away I got right back down to my fight
and weight I'm like literally the size I
was in 2019 going into all of this and
so I quickly started putting people on
it and very similar responses uh all of
them had a little bit of fluff but
nobody was on it for weight loss
everyone had a little bit of weight
fell right off got back down to a good
weight my mom I was particularly
concerned about cuz I didn't want her to
waste away again I didn't want her
vomiting I didn't want her having any
gastrointestinal symptoms I wanted all
of those to resolve it shifts your gut
microbiome to a more favorable
microbiome if you do it right and so and
we have the data on that so I was very
slow and cautious with her I don't want
her losing any muscle mass and everybody
just had these profound impacts my
daughter skin cystic acne I mean a
decade of severe cystic acne to the
point where she did not enjoy her
teenage years and she was suicidal from
it I mean just hiding behind her hair
for for years her skin I remember seeing
her after 3 weeks on it and I was like
your skin is porcelain what happened all
of her PCOS symptoms
reversed um my husband didn't want to
drink anymore the guy is a known
alcoholic he was like not interested in
alcohol his blood pressure regulated out
I mean just all of these little things
started happening and I started seeing
similar effects in my patience and then
I at the same time I was posting about
it and talking about it on my podcast
and people were messaging me telling me
these profound stories they were like I
went on it for weight loss or I went on
it for metabolic dysfunction or type two
diabetes but here's all the other things
that started happening and then people
started telling me they were getting
pregnant on it and you know when they
had been infertile and gone through
rounds of IVF that were not working and
just all of these Amazing Stories and so
of course I keep I have to research that
and do more information on that and it's
just been
I've just been unwinding I I feel like
I'm unwinding a story that isn't being
told so what is that story to summarize
what is that story that's not being told
that you've come to believe these
peptides are healing they are
anti-inflammatory and they are
regenerative and they have a profound
impact on our immune system in a
positive way and they don't just cover
up and mask the insulin resistance and
the metabolic dysfunction that leads to
type 2 diabetes they actually heal it
how' you know that well interestingly as
this year's gone on more and more
Studies have come out and we're starting
to see it so many of the hypotheses I
had about it are starting to show
themselves in good clinical data and
good studies and I've seen it with my
patients and I've seen it with myself so
I am now able to go off of it at first I
could only go off of it for a short
amount of time and my psoriasis would
come back that was the first symptoms I
would start getting skin issues and I
usually get it around my scalp line
little itches that would come back
within 7 to 10 days I am now able to go
a month without it and absolutely no
symptoms and the second I start to get
brain fog or a little bit of pain I go
back on I cycle it like I would any
other hormone I don't know if you've had
any guests on talking about hormones but
they're done best when you cycle them
because receptors get saturated and when
you saturate a receptor with a hormone
or after a while the cell will stop
listening
and so you don't want to just keep
flooding a cell or a body with a hormone
you want to take it away and let those
receptors pop back up and so I think
done correctly and done in an elegant
way that's just reasonable clinically
reasonable I think that we can actually
start to heal some of these chronic
lifestyle diseases that are so
rampant and it makes me wonder if we
would need less and less and less of the
common Pharmaceuticals that are being
handed out like candy the lifelong
Pharmaceuticals people go on statin
drugs or they go on blood pressure
medications and no one says boo they're
on it for life oh here's your metformin
for your type 2 diabetes you're on it
for life I think done correctly and also
the neuro regenerative process that
these induce in the brain they actually
regenerate
neurons neuroplasticity is this concept
where when the brain when you do
something enough your brain will hard
wire into that and so any habit good or
bad that you consistently do or any
thought process you consistently have if
you're chronically depressed or you're
chronically negative or you're you know
I mean you know this you're you you're
self-optimizing yourself all the time
and growing and trying to grow and be
better you're plasticizing your brain
and hardwiring that circuitry so it's
getting easier for you and you continue
to seek
knowledge these peptides offer people a
window of opportunity of not only giving
them the onus of control back because
there are some mechanisms in the brain
and the dope energic Pathways that are
giving people the they're back in the
driver's seat they're back in control of
what they're doing but it's also
inducing this neuroplasticity so if they
are to implement really positive
lifestyle habits During the period of
time that they're on it they will
hardwire that into their brain so it's
like opening a window of opportunity for
somebody to completely change their life
you mentioned some studies there that
have really supported your thesis that a
zmek is more than just a weight loss
drug and that it has these other sort of
regenerative properties and these
healing properties what are some of the
studies you've got some some things in
front of you there that you brought with
you what are some of these studies that
highlight this in your view well so
there's one study in particular that I
don't have the title of it written down
where they looked at all of the data on
all of the glp1 agonists that are out
there the different versions that I
mentioned and they went back through all
of the studies and they looked at it
system by system by system and I gave
your team a link to that and what they
found is I mean going from tip to toe
neuro regeneration and anti-inflammation
in the brain they showed improvements in
card vascular tissue we just had a study
come out at the end of 2023 called the
select trial it was a big one yes it was
sponsored by Nova Nordisk who's the
manufacturer of samac Tide of I should
say of asmic and so people say oh don't
believe those studies it was a well-
done study it looked at individuals in
their 40s who were overweight but did
not have type 2 diabetes and it showed a
20% reduction in severe cardiovascular
events so stroke and heart attack and
and others and so then people argued
once that came out and said oh well that
foof you know Nova nordis did it and
that would happen if people lost weight
anyway right you you'd have improvements
in cardiovascular disease well they just
looked at the data again and realized
that those benefits were independent of
weight loss whether people lost weight
or not they still had significant
Improvement in cardiovascular outcomes
which there's just nothing we don't have
anything out there that does that I
found data showing regeneration of
pancreatic tissue beta cells in type 1
diabetics if given early enough so if a
person is type 1 diabetes is an
autoimmune condition where the pancreas
becomes destroyed by the immune system
it's different than type
two we don't have anything to help those
people it used to be called juvenile
diabetes and then type two was adults
onset but now kids many many children
are dealing with type two so it's a big
mishmash but they're very two different
processes they shouldn't even have the
same name anyway done early U reversal
of that pancreatic damage to the point
where people didn't need to go on
insulin and were able to have pancreatic
healing we don't have anything that does
that except stem cells they at the end
of 2023 they had to stop the flow trial
because this was a k chronic kidney
disease trial um they had to stop it
because the control group they needed to
be able to ethically give the control
group the substance because it was so
effective it was so effective at
reversing chronic kidney disease and
kidney failure that they needed to be
able to offer to the control group
ethically and not let them continue on
their journey of kidney damage so we've
got this mishmash of studies and then
they've done little studies here and
they're looking at muscle for instance
it's regenerative to muscle it's
regenerative to Bone it's regenerative
to our joints some of this is in mice
some of it's in humans it's regenerative
to the testes and to sperm production
and motility when you say regenerative
to say muscle when people talk about ASM
one of the big concerns is that you lose
a lot of muscle right it's not true I
mean it is true I should let me let me
let me rephrase that any dietary
intervention or bariatric surgery that
induces a severe caloric restriction
will lead to about 20 to 35% muscle mass
or I should say lean mass loss so this
is a little bit of a Nuance conversation
if you basically put somebody into a
self- starvation mode they will lose 20
to 35% of their lean mass lean mass is
all the soft tissue in your body so that
could be your tendons and your ligaments
and your brain and they they Clump it
all into one and they're looking at that
and saying it's all muscle muscle is a
percentage of that muscle isn't all of
your lean mass right and so that kind of
makes the thing this the studies look
bad there I think the other thing that
they don't consider in that is
pathologic muscle due to metabolic
dysfunction will be
marbled with fat what does that mean
sorry well it's like a fogra when you
induce metabolic dysfunction in an
animal which is what they do in feed
lots for cows often and they do it to
geese to get their liver fatty you will
end up with this fatty infiltrate in the
muscle so the muscle goes from being
this lovely striad linear beautiful
pattern to marbled with with fat and
that fatty infiltrate becomes very
pathologic to the muscle and it puts the
muscle itself into to an insulin
resistant state so once the marbling
occurs in the muscle it's sort of a
chicken and egg downhill situation for
the muscle and I do believe very
strongly and I've been preaching this
for decades that once that process
starts and it most often starts in the
thighs you've probably seen the pictures
of the cross-section of like this is an
80-year-old triathlete and his muscle
looks really beautiful and linear and
then here's you know the average
80-year-old and it's really marbled and
the bone loss is significant and the
fatty layer on the outside is thicker
but what's most important in that photo
is the marbling of the muscle we don't
want marbled muscle that's the beginning
of the end you also end up with fatty
liver and you end up with fatty pancreas
when you're in this metabolic
dysfunction State this downhill Journey
that culminates in type two diabetes and
so one of the first things that happens
when metabolic Health improves whether
this is through dietary interventions
lifestyle strength training you name it
is that fatty infiltrate starts to
dissolve
these glp1 agonists induce that process
of the fat dissolving and so I think
that's part of the lean mass loss that
they're measuring they're just measuring
it as lean mass loss but we're also
decreasing muscle size because we're
having the fatty infiltrate start to
burn itself up gp1s have also been shown
to peruse the muscle with angiogenesis
so we get a vascular Supply so that more
amino acids are available to the muscle
so when they looked at aging muscle in a
human and they gave them gp1 Agonist
their muscle became healthier and less
pathologic because it started to
actually get better blood supply and be
infused with the amino acids they were
eating in the form of protein so it's
and then there's Pathways that are
impacted as well that are inducing
muscle protein synthesis so gp1s
actually induce muscle protein synthesis
they don't cause muscle wasting it's the
caloric restriction that's causing the
wasting and they're measuring it
somewhat aberant does that make sense
that's that's the story I'm trying to
weave here yeah so but how how do how
can I avoid the choric Restriction if
I'm taking a gp1 Agonist like some some
magti or impc you don't dose it too high
so you don't crush the appetite so the
whole goal is to keep people at a dose
where they still have an appetite you
don't have to crush their appetite with
it the way it's being dosed
traditionally is they're ramping it up
really fast and they're just devastating
people's appetite with it and so people
go from hungry and starving to I don't
want to eat anything and so they don't
and then they often will eat less
healthy version I'm sorry they'll eat
less volume of a poor of a poor diet so
they will continue to eat junk food only
less of it they will continue to eat the
crappy Foods they're used to eating only
less of it and I've heard Johan Hari on
your show talk about this and he a
beautiful book that he wrote his magic
pill book he talks about that he found
himself about five or six months in and
he was still just eating the same crap
he was just eating less of it and what
needs to happen when anybody's on this
at any dose is they need to be
protecting their muscle with all their
might they need to be strength training
and they need to be prioritizing their
protein macros like those are the two
non-negotiables I don't think doctors
are always talking about that and I
don't think patients are compliant with
that if I start micro doing though you
know won't I see less of the reward I
see less of the cost but I would will I
not also get less of the reward the the
positive upsides that you've described
not if you're doing all the other
lifestyle things so like I said it opens
this window of opportunity where people
feel much more in control because
there's impacts on the brain that allow
people to be much more in control of
their choices and of their thought
processes and of their even of their
obsessions it's very interesting how it
works and so people are able to make
better choices and I think given that
window of opportunity and introducing
these lifestyle interventions they're
going to be much more open to it so we
get them exercising we get them eating
better we get them doing all the things
you know we get them optimizing their
sleep we get them going on walks and
meditating and mitigating their stress
all of those things are going to improve
their metabolic health so it's a
two-pronged approach and we don't have
to crank the dose we can do this slow
and low and some people may need more
and some people may need less but the
point is is the way it's being done
traditionally where it's like you get
your script and you walk out of your
office and you don't get any counseling
you don't get any support this is where
people are falling into I believe the
terrible pits of Despair so this is
where the we're seeing the problems and
it can be done differently where we're
doing a holistic comprehensive approach
with a
patient I was reading a 2024 study by
Lindsay Wang that found diabetic paent
Pati taking a zc were 50% less likely to
develop bowel cancer compared to those
on
insulin what does this say and highlight
about aek's role in staving of cancer
well that's an interesting study because
insulin is prog grow so insulin is also
a signaling peptide hormone very much
like glp1 and it is progrow when you
give it to someone so someone being on
insulin I believe will
inherently potentially make them more
vul vble to cancer I don't want to say
certainly because I don't want to scare
everybody because there's a lot of
people out there on insulin but it is a
progrow hormone now it's prog grow that
we get surges of it after we work out
which is awesome we want that right we
want that anabolic response but in your
average person who's not working out and
who's not really using their insulin the
way they need to they're already
swimming in it due to insulin resistance
and now they're taking insulin because
their pancreas is pooped out that's a
mess that's a soup of of things we don't
necessarily want happening growing in
the body and so that's stud looked at
insulin versus gp1s it's not entirely
Fair because it's not a it's not a true
control group but they there are other
data sets coming out that haven't been
published yet showing really
good really hopeful and positive impacts
on potentially reducing cancer risk and
they're correlative not causitive so we
can't put our finger on it and say these
these these reduce cancer but they
looked at a you know over a million
people that were typed diabetics that
were on somac glutide and they found a
significant reduction in different types
of cancer that are obesity related in
comparison to the folks who were not
taking gp1s and those were the ovar the
cancers you don't want the ovarian the
pancreatic the colon the types of
cancers that are you know you don't come
back from readily and so that's very
exciting it's not getting a lot of play
and it's really really new information
so I'm excited just to watch it but it
makes sense to me because these on your
immune cells as well there's gp1
receptors throughout our entire body
that's why we're getting the impacts
throughout the entire body and I think
that the impact that it's having on the
overall immunologic millu of an
individual is potentially very
anti-cancer I mean that study that you
cited there I know nothing about um asek
and gp1s really but in my even in my
sort of you know chimp brain I go yeah
because if they lose weight they're less
likely to get cancer right no that's
totally fair and I think it's both
because the way that these are working
mechanistically in the body and many of
the studies that I've looked at are
showing results independent of weight
loss even if they don't lose weight then
their cancer risk reduces well their the
healing and regenerative and
anti-inflammatory impacts are there
regardless of weight loss or not and
then you add in weight loss and you add
in insulin sensitivity you add in this
this healing of the metabolic
dysfunction and you're going to
significantly reduce risk for everything
as well I mean that's a really good
point actually CU if has has anyone done
a study where they give someone a zenek
and even if they don't lose weight
inflammation goes down well that's what
the select study the trial showed that
that cardiovascular trial I just shared
with you they just relooked at that
information and realize that even
independent of weight because that was
the big argument everyone had is well of
course the cardiovascular benefits will
stay or will improve because they're
losing weight but they found that even
in those who didn't lose weight they
still had really good cardiovascular
outcomes so yes it that's what that's
what we're starting to see and so I
think they need to start looking at
these things more readily but they
weren't right they were just looking at
like here's morbidly obese people and
here's type two diabetics and we're
going to crank up the doses and we're
going to see what we see but we're
starting to get longitudinal data now so
that cancer one for instance was looking
at uh patient records going way back and
so they had over a million you know
people in there that they again it's
correlative it's not positive but it's
showing trends it's starting to show
positive Trends and so I think that's
what we have to look at and we have to
start to flesh that out what about
mental health things like depression um
and sort of anxiety and these kinds of
things you maybe have heard that these
are inducing suicidal ideation and
people are you know getting severely
depressed on them and the EU opened a
whole Research into it and people are
very concerned about this and yet we've
got studies showing really positive
impacts on depression and
anxiety and the thing I will say about
that is I'm not saying that people on
OIC are not having suicidal ideation but
that is a little more nuanced of a
conversation because number one when you
lose a significant amount of weight very
quickly all kinds of things can go wrong
you can end up with pancreatitis you can
end up with gall stones you can end up
with severe depression uh your fat
stores your hormones and so you lose
your hormones very quickly I've had
patients who got tummy tux and came in a
few months later and were losing their
minds because they literally just had
all of their hormonal Depot sucked out
of their stomach and so there's concern
there that this rapid weight loss which
again I am not a fan of I not a fan of
doing it that way but if you drop
somebody's weight significantly you may
end up with a very depressed mood State
we've also got a bit further to go with
that in that many people are using food
as their dopamine source and as their
crutch or as their coping mechanism and
I'm not judging I just understand that
to be true you know we all have our
advice and if you take that away from
someone because they suddenly don't want
to eat because we've crushed their
appetite with too high a dose then I
think that we could end up with a very
depressed person in front of us however
done correctly and what I'm seeing
clinically is people are having really
profound benefits in their anxiety and
their depression in their moods in their
cognition um I'm seeing neurode
Divergent folks taking it who are
becoming much more functional in the in
their everyday day-to-day I'm seeing
people who are more of a Hermit who
don't want to go out in the world
suddenly venturing out being more social
so there is an impact on the brain and I
think it's the anti-inflammatory
mechanism I think it's the dope energic
system the dopamine Pathways being
impacted and again if we're not cranking
the dose up I think that we can use
these effectively to bolster mood to
improve cognition to improve brain
Clarity and all of that leads you know
an inflamed brain is a depressed brain
at the end of the day we have to get
that point really clear depression is a
brain inflammation
issue you've mentioned sort of sexual
health a few times and fertility in
passing when we're talking about as EK
um women's sexual health male fertility
what is the the impact in your view of
and and is empek intervention on these
kinds of
things well the fertility conversation
is really daunting and it's kind of a
long one but we are looking we are a few
Generations into a major fertility
crisis and they say what is it by 2100
2,100 by 2 by 2,100 97% of countries in
the world will not be reproducing at a
rate to repopulate themselves we are
looking at a population crisis by 20 by
the mid 2040s they say sperm rates are
going to be at
zero and again that's multifactoral but
my firm belief at the root of this is
metabolic dysfunction I I I firmly
believe that metabolic dysfunction is
probably the biggest driver if I could
press a button and fix it I would put my
finger on the metabolic dysfunction
button and gp1s heal metabolic
dysfunction and so we're seeing reversal
and PCOS which is probably one of the
number one drivers of infertility in
young women period which is really at
the end of the day just metabolic
dysfunction it's just presenting in
women with high androgens the clinical
picture PCOS isn't doesn't always
involve um Cy on the ovaries it's just
this I don't even know why it's called
that anymore it's a clinical picture
where they have metabolic dysfunction
they have high testosterone they have
low progesterone their estrogen gets
converted readily into testosterone they
end up with hair growth they end up
infertile it's a disaster many many
young women many women in your age
cohort have this condition many women in
your many couples in your age cohort are
not able to get pregnant without IVF at
this point people are not getting
pregnant I don't know how old are you 51
yes people in their 30s are not getting
pregnant and when I ask my friends in
their 30s all over the world I say
what's like how's how's the pregnancy
going with like how how's it going with
your friends and they're like
everybody's on IVF it's I don't know
what you're hearing but it like that's
crazy to me that 30-year-olds are having
to do IVF healthy
looking 30y olds are having to do IVF so
we've got sperm issues and we've got egg
issues it's both it's not just the
female's fault it's not just the males
issue um we've got sperm Health we've
got sperm volume we've got sperm
motility issues we've got metabolic
dysfunction in both groups and what
happens when we do have a successful
pregnancy is that that Offspring is
being epigenetically flagged if the
mother is obese and dealing with
metabolic dysfunction and even if the
father is that fetus ends up bathed in
insulin in utero and they come out EP
epigenetically marked for much more
severe risk of metabolic dysfunction and
obesity in their own lives and that
cycle just goes into perpetuity that's
where we're at we're several Generations
into this as as a species and so I'm
worried like I'm legitimately I I joke
that humans are going extinct it's not
funny and it I think it's really
happening and I I do believe it will
happen in the next few Generations if we
don't write this ship and at the root of
it is this overarching metabolic
dysfunction 2018 data out of the US that
was published in 2021 showed that only
6.88% of us adults are metabolically
healthy
6.8 so that's 93 94% of us adults are
cardi metabolically
busted that's and that was pre-
lockdowns
why that's a great
question you know you talked about PCOS
and this sort of infertility crisis and
then you talked about it being about
metabolic dysfunction yeah where is the
metabolic dysfunction coming from what
is the thing furthest Upstream if we
were to attack it at its source yeah the
food supply was significantly
adulterated in the past few Generations
so it's starting with my parents the
Boomers you know they got their
Convenient Food their everything was
about convenience that's when we got you
know disposable diapers and fancy
microwaves and dishwashers and all that
jazz well food became very convenient as
well in the '90s I watched this happen
in my lifetime in the '90s
the food supply was significantly
adulterated and terrifyingly so and they
found the Bliss point right the perfect
Emulsion of sugar fat and salt to hit
those neurotransmitters in the brain to
make you want to come back for more
toxicity is a huge issue I believe
toxicity in general not just
environmental toxicity but it's the
chemicals in our food um what we're
doing to ourselves so many young women
today are bathing eles in toxic
chemicals through their beauty habits I
mean the nails and the hair and the skin
care and it's it's really really severe
so it's this sort of multifactoral thing
humans are actually eating the same
amount or less calories than they were
30 years ago it's not the caloric intake
it's not that people are sloth and
they're lazy and they need to do better
it's that we are swimming in a toxic
soup we are eating a very adulterated
mineral deficient protein deficient
chemical [__] storm of a food supply and
then you throw in the mass I mean to be
totally honest with you the massive
uptick in vaccines in infants when they
come out I mean that's a whole different
ball game than it was even when my
daughter was an infant it's
significantly different than when I was
an infant so we've just we've got a lot
of things coming at these young people
and it culminates you know and it adds
up and I think people don't realize we
have a toxic bucket we all have an
individual toxic bucket and that bucket
will become full for whatever reason
maybe we've got mold exposure maybe
we've got too much stress it's it's
multifactoral but that bucket will fill
up an overflow and metabolic dysfunction
is a result of that and also a driver of
that so it's it's very hard to put my
finger on why or the chicken and egg
what's what's leading to what I know
that there's things we can do that are
non-negotiable to help write the ship as
best we can that have nothing to do with
drugs and have nothing to do with
peptides and I've been talking about
this for decades we must be strength
training and optimizing our muscle we
must be walking every day like human
beings do humans were made to walk and
lift heavy [__] right we are meant to be
in community we're not meant to be
isolated we're meant to be around others
we are meant to share our microbiomes we
are meant to have healthy microbiomes
not these super sterilized microbiomes
the abundance
of microbiome disruption from all the
antibiotics I mean that alone causes
lifelong issues for people and so you
stack all this up and people are sitting
at home they're alone loneliness is an
epidemic they're eating food that comes
from Uber Eats or I don't know what you
have here but they're ordering in
they're eating processed foods for most
meals they're not getting out here in
London I'm so happy everybody's walking
but back in the US everyone just drives
everywhere maybe in New York they walk
but any anywhere else you go you know
it's like get up go from the bed to the
couch to the car to the desk back to the
car to the couch to the bed people are
not exercising people are not paying
attention to nutritionally dense food
they're not getting sunlight they're not
in community I think Co really squelched
Community just in so many different ways
you know a lot of churches are sort of
disbanding communities are disbanding
they shut the gyms down so there's just
all of these factors that culminate into
a human being that isn't a healthy human
being just on that point of PCOS if I
was a young woman I was 31 years old
then I came to you with PCOS polycystic
ovary syndrome and it was impacting my
fertility you could see I had the uh you
know higher testosterone levels I had
slightly hairier arms I was maybe put on
some weight what would you aim at what
would you do I would prioritize protein
first of all I would go for 30 grams of
protein three meals a day as best that
you can I don't even care if it's
grassfed fancy protein I just want them
eating animal protein if they will do it
I want them immediately cutting out as
many of the chemicals that are applying
to their skin and their bodies so
they're not getting their hair done
they're not shooting the botox they're
not putting the nails on they're not I
mean it's just a chemical what's coming
at young women is crazy when it comes to
their beauty routines at this point I
would have them walking three times a
day for 10 minutes each so three 10
minute walks outside preferably getting
up and seeing the sunlight so we set the
Circadian rhythm so it's really
important that you get up and outside
first thing in the morning to get
natural sunlight in your eyes and it's
really important that you see it in the
afternoon as the sun is waning that sort
of golden hour you know as the Sun
starts to wane in the sky and the sky
gets golden go outside then that really
helps you with sleep sleep is critical
cut the blue light put the you know
Amber blue light blockers on at night
stop staring at the phone and the TV
until 10 o'clock at night get that [__]
out of there because that is jacking up
people's Rhythm which is jacking up
their fertility and their hormones um
strength training is non-negotiable we
have to protect our muscle and we have
to build it I'm a skinny girl and I lift
more than you would believe and I don't
look I can't hold it but I try so really
optimizing muscle that alone would be a
GameChanger like if they didn't even cut
out I wouldn't even pull Foods away from
them I would just say focus on eating
getting the protein in and the other
foods will start to fall away and when
you start to do all the other things
that are good for you you start to make
better choices when you feel better you
do better I have reversed so much PCOS
in women like that next I would add in
some progesterone which is available
over the counter but obviously do that
under the care of someone who knows what
they're doing so you don't take too much
progesterone but progesterone's a very
important player in there it's actually
a neuro hormone it's it's very safe and
effective and I would get them eating as
much of a whole food diet as I could
could you can you reverse PCOS yeah yeah
I mean they so you know genetics loads
the gun and environment pulls the
trigger so they came out with some bad f
genetic Flags but that doesn't mean that
that's their fate none of us it is not
my fate to die a miserable death from
psoriatic arthritis I will do everything
I can to make sure I keep that at Bay
and that's something that medical
doctors don't tell you you go in they
say you have
this there's nothing we can do and I'm
like could I take a multivitamin could
my is changing my diet going to do
anything and back when I was growing up
there was like there's nothing you can
do good luck at least now doctors are
starting to get a little more Savvy and
realizing it's more nuanced and I'm I'm
starting to see the professions come
together more and realize like Diet
actually matters and I'm starting to see
it in the headlines of the medical
journals like Diet actually matters
lifestyle matters light matters you know
but all of these things what what I tell
patients is I'm not going to cure you
you are genetically and epigenetically
primed but we're going to try to keep
that as quiet as possible we're going to
try to keep you optimized so that this
over here doesn't rear its ugly head but
you know throw in a bad viral infection
or throw in a big stress or throw in you
know something major like a birth child
birth and you might get off kilter again
but that doesn't mean you don't have all
the control in the world to help
mitigate that I have to say you know as
someone that comes from I'm going to try
and pronounce it again naturopathic
medicine it is quite surprising to hear
you talk about micro doing on a zenek I
know because you know I think
naturopathic medicine you'd imagine they
were very much against micro doing or
dosing any sort of chemical
pharmaceutical right so how do you
square the circle there because it's a
peptide and it's been appropriated by
the pharmaceutical industry because of
its delivery system but there's many
other peptides that are available over
the counter for instance in supplement
form like bpc157 which is a regenerative
peptide it's also anti-inflammatory all
of these peptides generally are
regenerative anti-inflammatory and
healing they all just kind of have their
special skill set so we've got a variety
of different peptides that were pulled
by the FDA because they work is my
opinion but we also have ones that are
available over the counter that are in
sprays that are in pills if you go get
hurt you can order them online it's
legal I'm not talking any black market
this these are reputable companies in a
supplement form and you can induce
phenomenal healing in your body these
are available people just don't know
about them and they don't know how to
use them and they are a bit expensive
this is just another peptide it just
happens to be held over here and it's
being used in a way by brand name
pharmaceutical big Pharma compy
companies in a way that I just don't
think is appropriate for peptide use
you've used that phrase done correctly a
few times when you're talking about the
micro doing of a zenek and you've also
highlighted there but also previously in
this conversation that people are using
it wrong so I or using it in too high of
a dose so I amum I brought with me today
some little science lab which I've got
over there in the corner because I would
like you to show me when we talk about
micro doing a what micro doing is as a
term what does that mean but also could
you show me the comparative difference
in how you would and you are giving your
patients a zc what dose you're giving
them out comparatively yes to how it's
typically being administered in what
dosage um for the sort of weight loss
effects that we've talked about and that
most people know it for sure yeah
absolutely so let me bring over the
zmek okay so this is what they start
people on and then every month every
four weeks in the traditional model
with the brand names like OIC and wovi
and mro they double this is this would
be specifically for stide okay so let me
back up here just I've got my um some
with you so typically when they
administer a zek and stide they do it in
a pen which you kind of self inject
which is at a controlled dose yes so you
can't give yourself whatever uh quantity
you like it's kind of like a set dose
you go and it injects into you yep okay
okay so they start them here with that
much in it so for people that are can't
see cuz they're listening on audio it's
0.25 milligrams okay and then every
month they double the dose about over 16
weeks they double the dose until they
get folks generally now smart docks will
stop people where they need to stop but
the standard is to get them up to
about
here per week per month I'm sorry per
week yes per week they do this per week
they get them up to here this is what
the studies have been done on and so
this is how it's traditionally dosed and
if you're severely diabetic or obese I
could see the rationale I'm arguing I
still don't think that's necessary when
you have the appropriate lifestyle
interventions okay if you're treating
someone comprehensively using other
peptides using hormones getting people
to do the healthy lifestyle changes I
don't think this is necessary and I
think this leads to very high risk for
side effects so we went from was it 0.25
to 2.5 basically so 10 times more yeah
over the space of x amount of weeks 16
weeks 16 weeks okay so they 10x the
dosage over 16 weeks yep um which looks
like what is a lot so you're taking that
much injected into self injected every
week every week okay and you do that
you're theoretically supposed to be on
that dosage forever yes and they don't
ever stop they don't take breaks they're
not concerned about receptor sensitivity
it's just they just go it's just you're
on this and you're on it for life now
some there are really good weight loss
docs out there and they are helping
their patients get off of them and
actually the more recent data is showing
that when folks are exercising just it
doesn't even matter what kind of
exercise when folks are exercising in
addition to they can come off more
successfully and maintain the weight
loss so that's promising however my
argument is in somebody who's
metabolically optimized now this isn't
everyone this isn't your severely obese
patient but in somebody who's
metabolically
optimized I give them a fraction of this
and that differs by person but I
actually have to use an insulin syringe
so that I can do a fraction of the
starting dose and I may never elevate it
I may never ramp it up so compared to
the
2.5 milligrams in there you're giving
out how much I'm giving a fraction of
0.25 I'm giving a fraction of this so
you might be giving 0 Z it depends it
depends on the patient and without
getting into detail because whenever I
do people start playing with their
dosage themselves and I've heard seen
crazy things in the comment section of
my posts on Instagram so I don't want to
tell people exactly how to dose um but
it depends it depends on what they're
going and this is a bigger conversation
because I don't ever do seacu tide as a
monotherapy I never do it by itself I
never just crank people on seacu tide
and hope for the best if that is the
only Geo if I'm sorry if that's the only
peptide they're using they likely will
have to keep going up and so I have one
patient who is obese and has some weight
to lose and I have taken n months to get
him to here which is roughly one one
milligram that's one milligram so he's
on one milligram and I really don't want
to raise it I really want him doing more
of the lifestyle interventions to start
to heal the metabolism as well so it's a
multipronged approach I'm trying to heal
the metabolism at the end of the day
this is one tool but there are other
tools but this is a pretty potent tool
so in the case of someone that is micro
doing how frequently are they taking
that small dose in the small sort of
Petri Edition front of you it depends so
give me give me a case study of the
typical person well it depends on what
I'm going for what my short-term goals
are what my long-term goals are so for
myself I was having to do a fraction of
this droplet here not this this once a
week as people heal and improve they're
able to space that out
some people can space it out two weeks
so some people are dosing every two
weeks some people are dosing once a
month it really depends some people are
there's a lot of folks thinking they're
micro doing but they're actually just
barely going below that 0.25 they're
still almost right at it so they're
still doing a large percentage of this
and that's not really micro doing but
they're getting results and so my goal
is always just to dose people just below
symptoms I never want them symptomatic I
never want them saying I'm nauseous or
I'm throwing up or having any of that
there's no need for any of that I want
them just below symptoms and I want them
continually improving and getting the
results I'm looking for that might be
lowering of blood pressure it might be
Improvement in mood it might be you know
continuing clearing of their skin
lesions it depends on what we're going
for and then my goal is to cycle this so
I will try to get them off for as long
as I can and I will try to try to take
breaks for as long as I can because I
want the cells to resensitize so that
might be like I said two weeks it might
be a month some folks might just do this
a couple times a year they may not be on
it continuously they might just do what
we call a cycle this is you might be
familiar with this um if you've
interviewed anyone on testosterone
therapy often it's a cycle and so
they'll do a few months maybe 90 days on
and then they'll take some time off it
totally depends on the patient and what
I'm going for though and it depends on
again what am I trying to accomplish
shortterm and what am I trying to
accomplish long-term and how compliant
are they being with the rest of the
treatment plan so give me a case study
then of someone who has micro doed with
you successfully and they've gone from
ill health and some form to healthy so
my mom is a great example she started on
a tiny little bit cuz I said she's older
and she's a bit frail and she was going
into it with gut issues already so a
very tiny little bit she actually ramped
herself up I'm not sure why she ramped
herself up a bit she got a bit
symptomatic so she was still at well
below this droplet amount and I've
recently it's been maybe nine months
I've recently brought her back down to a
droplet and I'm trying to keep her there
and she's still doing it once a week and
we're starting to play with how long can
she go off of it before we start to see
symptoms I don't want the symptoms to
come back full bore because then we know
tissue destruction is happening I'm
trying to heal people in the process of
treating people if that makes sense I
want both to happen but she also needs
to be compliant with all the things and
so something I'm hearing about a lot
which is a great case example is many of
my colleagues who I have a program where
I teach people how to do this and many
of my colleagues are thinking their
micro do and they're not and then they
start calling me and they're like
they're either running into symptoms or
they're hitting a wall and their
patients are plateauing they say it's
not working anymore I'm like well what
are you going for if they're going for
weight loss they are going to Plateau if
they're not because they haven't
implemented the strength training yet or
they haven't implemented maybe some of
the other bioidentical hormone
replacement or whatever it may be you
know they're not doing the they're not
taking care of all of it holistically
and so they're running into some
barriers what is what is the role it's
playing if if you're doing it at such
low doses what is the role that it would
play for someone with for example
chronic pain or some form of
inflammation in their body why is such a
small dose IM important in the bigger
picture you described there of getting
their health back in shape is it because
of you said earlier about the brain fog
and getting them to a state where they
can make better decisions or I think
it's actually also in the brain so glp1
is secreted in the brain something that
most people think is that it's secreted
in the gut and then it makes its way to
the brain there's actually different Reg
of the brain where glp1 is produced and
there's receptors all over the brain to
receive the glp1 so I think something
very important is happening in the brain
that we really are only just starting to
understand and I believe that the
downstream impacts of that of healing
that like I said at the beginning if we
heal the brain we heal the immune system
we heal everything Downstream and so I'm
really trying to have a cognitive impact
and so
that's it becomes more critical than to
do all the lifestyle interventions that
reduce neuroinflammation we want to make
sure they're taking supplements that are
supportive for brain health we want to
make sure that their lifestyle habits
are supportive to brain health they're
not continuing to drink a bunch of
alcohol although this makes most people
not want to drink even at tiny doses
most people just want to stop drinking
it's really phenomenal they want to kind
of stop doing all their bad habits they
want to stop chronically shopping they
want to stop all the dopamine chasing
habits that they have which is is now if
you go too high though you start to
impact reward systems and I can see
where they start to get depressed so I'm
trying to have a positive healing
regenerative impact on the brain and the
immune system to ultimately heal them up
and hopefully I can take them off of
them or maybe they might have to revisit
it if there's a flare if something comes
up in their life that sort of set like I
said you kind of get set back over the
edge we might have to bring it on board
for a minute but I'm ultimately doing an
initial healing phase and then I'm doing
a maintenance phase you mentioned
alcoholism there and you mentioned your
husband earlier as well how is there
research to show the impact that it has
on addictions they're studying it but
people want to stop smoking people want
to stop doing cocaine people want to
stop doing all kinds of things and it's
very interesting and they Johan actually
talks about this in his book and he he
does a nice job of breaking down the
science there on it they looked at rats
and they thought okay well if this is
just crushing the reward system then it
would crush all the reward systems but
it's not crushing libido for people and
it's not crushing some of the other
reward seeking behaviors it just seems
to be crushing many of the ones that are
pathologic or not so great for our
health in the long run and he actually
talks about a study that I've read as
well where they took rats and they gave
them sort of that like yummy Emulsion of
that sweet sugar salty deliciousness and
then they gave them rat chow and when
they put them on seacu tide they stopped
seeking out the yummy devast I mean
that's that Emulsion is what makes you
become very metabolically you know
compromised and they still ate the rat
Chow they still went for they went for
the healthy food I don't know how
healthy rat Chow is that's debatable but
they went for the more nutritionally
dense food and they actually stopped
seeking out the pleasure food and I I'm
seeing that across the board with all
kinds of behaviors I got a message from
a lady she said I had no idea I had such
a severe online shopping habit like I
would just fill the cart up and purchase
and then she started filling the cart up
and not purchasing and now she's not
even online shopping she's not even like
going in to make the to have the
experience it's really interesting
what's going on in the brain there in
your opinion it plays on the
hypothalamic pituitary axis to some
degree and it is impacting dope energic
Pathways and at the end of the day the
dop anergic Pathways our dopamine
seeking system
is in a simplistic way to describe it is
our addiction system so we chase that
dopamine dragon that dopamine Dragon
might be sex it might be gambling it
might be cigarettes it might be whatever
it is whatever that thing is that gives
us that hit and interestingly about
dopamine and why it BEC such a process I
mean I think a lot of it is these cell
phones it's this quick we've got a very
quick reward system Society you know
back when I was a kid we had to like
wait outside in the freezing cold all
night to buy concert tickets and now you
guys are like well I'm just going to buy
whatever I can afford to get the best
seat it's a very different world you
know and everything's right at our
fingertips and it's very it's very quick
response and so our dopamine Tre is
really screwed up
dopamine is healthiest and signaling
best when we're seeking out the
challenge it's not when we get to the
it's not when we win have you ever
wanted something really badly and then
you succeeded and you got there and you
were like I'm just not feeling it just
wasn't what I it's because it was the
journey there it was the conquest of
getting the thing of achieving the goal
that's what gave you the dopamine it's
not as much getting the thing at the end
of the day and this is playing somewhere
in that system system and people are
just not having the reward seeking
Behavior as they were I had so many
people reach out to me and say when it
came to food in particular this must be
what normal people's brains feel like I
don't wake up obsessed thinking about
food I don't go throughout my day
obsessed thinking about food I can
actually think about other things really
what we're saying here then is that
hunger is much more
than a desire for food hunger is a much
broader sort of psychological phenomenon
that's about
dopamine and reward and all these things
so when we attack so g1's role isn't
just in hunger it's in this bigger
psychological sort of incentive
structure it was weird because as you
saying that this morning I didn't eat
right because I didn't have breakfast
and I didn't have lunch because I was
doing my annual health check so they say
you got to fast beforehand so I didn't
have anything and my first meal per se
was at about 2: p.m. you can see my
little jab in my arm from they got you
the little canula thing they put in my
arm um and I got to about 3 p.m. and I
hadn't eaten and I have this drawer in
my car the car we typically pick up
guest in and it's got some like less
healthy snacks in I try and stay out of
it but because I hadn't eaten for some
reason I was like I need to go in the
drawer and eat food I need to go and eat
the sugary stuff so as you were talking
I was thinking is the administration of
jp1 and zeg just bringing down that
noise a little bit to the point that I
no longer want the sugary snack drawer
because I was thinking to myself this
morning if I if that was the start of
the day when I was less hungry I
wouldn't have been thinking about that
snack draw but because the day went on
and I became more hungrier I had a
greater pull on dopamine so there's
people living typ you know their
everyday lives with this kind of Greater
demand for dopamine for whatever reason
and it's coming from gambling or porn
addiction or or shopping addiction and
what gp1 is doing is it's just bringing
not just the the I need food that the
hunger down it's bringing the sort of
dopamine pathway down in terms of volume
it's quieting the noise that's a really
good way to put it and that's how people
describe it is they call it the you know
the the the food noise or the hedonic
urges it it quiets the noise down and
that's why I was saying earlier that it
gives people this wonderful window of
opportunity to be back in the driver's
seat they sometimes for the first time
in their life have full control over
what they're choosing to eat when
they're choosing to eat what they're
putting in their mouth and some people
didn't have that control before and it's
not just dopamine we've got leptin we've
got gin we've got these different
appetite they're also peptid signaling
hormones and they all play together and
they don't play well if glp 1's not in
there so if leptin is happening and gin
is happening and we can go into the
details of that if you want if g1's not
there the orchestra doesn't work and
there's a lot of folks sitting around
with leptin resistance insulin
resistance they're not responding to Gin
this even the cell receptors getting to
the edge of the membrane is sometimes
gp1
contingent and so my argument is that
sometimes the tiniest little amount
might be what that person needs to kind
of harmonize the
orchestra maybe you know we can't have
and this is the other reason I don't
love it in monotherapy Imagine a jazz
band and you just had one big bass drum
that would be ridiculous it would sound
terrible right like the Nuance in the
Jazz drummer is what makes Jazz so cool
a lot of folks are using this at this
dose right this huge dose and that's the
big old bass drum and they're just
crushing the whole brain circuitry to
suppress hunger period and they're
ending up with all these Downstream side
effects which are not fun my argument is
if we just harmonize the orchestra but
sometimes we need a little estrogen or a
little progesterone or we need a little
bit of this or that we need to do some
lifestyle things to get the leptin
resistance to reset and the insulin
resistance to reset but we might need a
little bit of gp1 on
board every single time you eat you have
an opportunity to improve your health
and that's why I love Zoe because Zoe
helps me to make the smartest food
choices for me and my body and as you
guys will know by now Zoe is a sponsor
of this podcast and I'm an investor in
the company and if you haven't tried Zoe
I highly recommend you do because Zoe
combines My Health Data with Zoe's
worldclass science and using those two
things Zoe guides me to Better Health
every single time I make a food choice
and eat which means that I have more
energy better sleep better mood and I'm
less hungry and the most important thing
is Zoe actually works it's backed by
their recent clinical trial something
called the method study which is the
gold standard of scientific research I
started Zoe just over a year ago now and
I've been able to track my progress week
after week so I can learn how to be even
smarter the following week and if you
haven't joined Zoe yet I'm giving you
10% off when you join Zoe now just use
the code
ce10 checkout what if someone says that
we haven't got clinical studies yet to
prove that micro doing is safe over the
long term and it could be doing
long-term damage because these you know
compounds have only been around for what
a couple of years now and in terms of
people really using them on
mass well I think we would be far more
concerned with high doses and that's
what most people are on are on high
doses and we're really not seeing the
safety signal blowing off the way that
people are concerned about in fact we're
seeing the opposite of that some really
good data has come out refuting many of
the studies that were so concerning in
the past few months and some of it's
just being presented at different
conferences so it's not being published
yet but I keep up with all of it and
it's very exciting we're not seeing a
signal on pancreatitis we're not seeing
bowel obstruction um gastro pris I think
it's fair to say that the highest risk
group for gastroparesis is type two
diabetics it's because they are sugaring
up their Vagas nerve the high blood
sugar is actually destroying the Vegas
nerve which is causing low-grade
gastroparesis so they're already sitting
on the edge of of it in many cases and
then they're being cranked into these
crazy high doses and getting thrown over
the edge a real concern is bilary
disease so gall stones when you go on a
very severely calorically restricted
diet your bile sledges up in your
gallbladder so a gallbladder is already
very often compromised in an obese
individual and it's already sludgy and
it maybe already has some Stones forming
and then they go on a caloric
restriction that lack of food going
through the digestive tract will cause
the
bile to sludge up they'll throw a stone
into the pancreas the number one cause
of pancreatitis is fatty pancreas which
people with metabolic dysfunction
already have the N the second cause is a
gall stone and the third cause really
is excessive severe weight loss done too
quickly so we're taking people and
thrusting them up on these high doses
they're often already sitting on the
edge of many of these conditions and
then they're getting thrown over the
edge it's like well yeah no wonder when
I started looking at the terrible side
effects I was like well of course I mean
anybody who is severely diabetic or
severely obese is already sitting on the
edge of that and so my argument is why
are we throwing people on these high
doses and sending them over the edge I
don't think taking a tiny amount of
something is nearly as concerning as the
high doses but the rates that you're
hearing in the media are not the rates
that are showing up in the studies even
of these terrible side effects I just
mentioned I have always believed that
there's no such thing as a free lunch
that's SP in life and you know whenever
someone tells me that something is good
for me
um it always comes with a cost you know
like that just seems to be the way that
life works and I like that life has that
balance to it where there is no you know
anything that's worthwhile whether it's
starting a business having a great
marriage or relationship raising kids
right there's so much of an upside and
there's so much of a cost you know and
so as it relates to micro doing of zek
my brain is going
there's got to be a cost if there is any
reward there has got to be a cost that's
fair well you have to think about the
risk reward ratio and that's something
that we don't talk about in medicine I
think Co really showed that you know you
have the risk of covid the real risk of
covid whatever that looked like
depending on the scale of uh
susceptibility you had for poor outcomes
so if you were 65 or older you were in
poor health there was a real risk and
then you have the reward uh we have to
look at what lockdowns did we have to I
mean 146% increase risk of suicidal
ideation all kinds of I mean I the stats
on that I don't even want that like
makes me sick when I start thinking
about what happened um I was just
driving over here and the Uber driver
was telling me how nobody goes to church
anymore and all the bars are the pubs
are closing because the culture the pub
culture is going away not because of
drinking but because of just people join
gathering in community you know like he
said it was Co was the end of so much of
London that he saw and he's been driving
for in some form or another for 15 years
through London and so we have to look at
risk reward ratio and the risk of
walking around in a chronically inflamed
state for somebody who say has ptic
arthritis I have thought about this and
I'm like you know what the risk that I'm
seeing in the data from high doses of
this is probably not nearly the risk of
a tiny dose of it and it certainly is
better than the clinical outcomes of
walking around with raging psoriatic
arthritis for the next 30 40 years which
is
dementia my spine fusing lack of
movement muscle wasting chronic
pain so on and so forth the real risk of
obesity is
tremendous and something that a lot of
people don't appreciate is when we start
to gain weight in middle age that's a
lowgrade insulin resistance happening
and so a woman will gain you know
somewhere between 45 and 50 she might
gain 10 pounds okay we get a little
thicker as we get a little older okay
maybe the next five years she gains
another 10 pounds and we just sort of
accept it as a society like all our moms
kind of get bigger right and all moms
just get bigger and they all end up
looking like they you know the whole the
moms the grandmas everyone ends up in my
family round by the end of it well now
my family starting to drop dead of heart
attacks they're all on lifestyle
medications they're all on statins and
blood pressure medications and all of
these things and my thinking is what if
that process never even started what if
I was able to intervene with not just
glp ones but all the other tools I had
available to me that I didn't have when
they started I wasn't out of school yet
I didn't know what I know now what if I
was able to intervene and give them
decades more of a high quality life and
that's what longevity medicine is that's
what hormones are that's what
bioidentical hormone replacement is and
what these other peptides are that we've
been using for a long time in clinical
decades in clinical practice and I don't
know if you you probably don't but the
um Women's Health Initiative 20 plus
years ago came out with data showing
estrogen and progesterone replacement
therapy is dangerous and all women were
immediately ceased doctors got scared
everybody got taken off their hormones
we just destroyed an entire generation
of women over the past 20 years doctors
that were smart like myself and my
colleagues we read the data and we
realized that they were giving them
progestin and not progesterone and there
was nothing unsafe about what they were
getting and so we kept everybody on
their hormones and I'm like well here's
informed consent would tell the patients
this is the data this is what we're
going to do they agreed or didn't agree
that's called informed consent here's
your risk reward ratio and they've just
reanalyzed the data in the past few
months and decided that they were wrong
it was bad data they shouldn't have
taken all these women off of hormones
the amount of dementia and cardiac
disease and bone fractures and on and on
and on that happened because those women
were starved of hormones is devastating
to me so it comes down to
understanding the mechanism of action of
how these things work sharing that as
best as you can with your patients and
then having a conversation and letting
the patient decide so but in the case of
the micro doing you're going to tell me
the upsides in that informed consent
scenario what would you tell me the
downsides might be I would tell you the
downsides that we see in the data with
the high doses okay but and you would
extrapolate from there that you would
have those downsides meant but in
smaller frequency much much smaller po
but also you keep a sharp eye on your
patient you don't just send somebody out
with a prescription and say see ya good
luck you know it's close monitoring
you're making sure to keep track of
things we're running Labs we're checking
in we're making sure symptom pictures
aren't showing up and it's upside versus
downside people are going to listen to
this and they're going to think okay so
I should be micro doing as
zc and what might happen is people will
go online and they'll try and buy zenek
and then they'll at home start I don't
know putting it in that tea or whatever
oh no that's not a good idea I would I
don't know what the situation is in the
UK but I know in the United States we
have longevity doctors we have Smart
functional medicine doctors we have
doctors that have access to compounding
pharmacies and I'm hearing at least in
certain parts of Canada there are
compounding pharmacies I don't know what
the situation is in the UK I believe
there are compounding pharmacies are
being driven out by big Pharma because
they're pretty punk rock they're doing
individualized medicine for patients
they create medications for a patient at
the dose that's tolerable for the
patient and I highly encourage folks to
do their research and find a doctor
who's willing to work with them and at
the very least consider the starting
dose that is in the pre-filled pens and
talk to your doctor about not escalating
so quickly and making sure that you
implement the other lifestyle factors
aggressively so that you don't have to
increase the dosage and I'm hearing from
people in my program that are doing
quite well that way they don't have
access to compounding pharmacist they
don't even have access to like a
longevity doctor I understand that's not
available for everyone and there's
there's economic issues I get all that
so they're finding great success in that
0.25 milligram and they're being really
diligent about all the other lifestyle
interventions and they're doing awesome
and so I don't know any doctor that
would want to crank up a dose of any
medication if a patient came to me and
said doc I want to start on this you
know the standard is this dose I want to
start on this dose and I don't want to
go up I'd be like Hallelujah cuz anytime
you increase the dose of anything you're
going to get side effects are you seeing
the weight loss benefits in people that
are micro doing if they're metabolically
optimized and or they really start
working on it so if somebody walks in
and they've got 30 40 pounds to lose I
have seen them successfully micro doing
so long as they take that opportunity to
do all the things they cannot sit on
their ass and eat junk food all the
things what are all the things so
strength training a couple times a week
lifting something heavy that might just
mean filling up water jugs and picking
them up and walking across your room it
might mean picking up your cat and doing
some squats every night just starting to
use the muscle and why strength training
because muscle is the currency of
metabolic Health like we need muscle
mass in order for our cells to be
optimally insulin sensitive it's just
how it works we gobble up our blood
sugar and we regenerate our mitochondria
predominantly in the muscle so we need
muscle it's a very important organ
system it's not just a moover you know
we don't just move our our bones around
with it you've got to have go Dr Gabriel
Lion on and she'll give you the whole
muscle the conversation but muscle is
absolutely non-negotiable and so
strength training man woman I don't care
what age they are it's something we have
to focus on it might be push-ups it
might be I saw some cool stuff around
the parks around here you guys have you
it's way better here than it is in the
US it's like not even emphasized so my
husband's like that's like a situp thing
and that you know it was like some
blocks of wood with some metal on it but
it was set up as a little exercise area
in one of the parks so making sure
that's dialed in prioritizing
protein okay making sure the food you
choose to put in your mouth is
nutritionally dense what's the bang for
your buck is it brightly colored is
it coming from a lab or coming from a
factory in a package with a hundred
ingredients in it or is it a whole food
right is it is it food that came off the
farm is it food that looks like how God
made it however you want to think of it
simplistic so I'm G to start lifting
weights I'm going to
um yeah I'm G to start lifting weights
and then I'm going to start eating lots
of protein yes and what else do I need
to do make sure that you eat a variety
of colorful Foods right so just just
focus there I hate taking Foods away
from people start there you'll fill up
and then you don't need the rest right
you're going to get up and go for three
walks a day like I mentioned three
10-minute walks and I think ideally
morning because you're getting your
morning sunlight go out at noon so your
High Noon light you're going to do
wonderful things for your leptin and for
your circadian rhythm if you hit the
light at three times a day and then
you're going to go for that late
afternoon walk so that might just be
going out with your dog it might be
going out with a friend whatever might
be going out at lunch break whatever
just go around the block these are are
these these sound very similar to your
six pillars for a pain-free life which
you write about in your book painfree
and strong yeah so we covered a few of
them here we've covered the strength
training one and I had some really
awesome stats that I found um in one
study 186 people with type 2 diabetes
were split into three training programs
one was one group was strength training
the next was moderate cardio training
and the third is a combination of both
and the strength training only group
lost the most fat gained the most
strength and lean body mass and had the
biggest decrease in insulin resistance
and that was in women's health and you
know I think one of the things that
we've always assumed and I've certainly
assumed it is that as I get older I'm
just going to lose muscle and that's
just what it is yeah it's not true no
it's we even have studies showing that
folks in their 70s can maintain and
build muscle even if we maintain it
right even if we can just maintain it so
it's critical this is not negotiable I
have a 24y old daughter who is starting
to understand this she's starting to get
it right and she's like okay mom what do
I do and I'm like just pick up your dog
she's got two different dogs that are
two different sizes I'm like just do
squats with your dogs start doing
push-ups off the side of your couch you
can do this at home right there's so
many opportunities online now
everything's out there and it's free you
just have to actually put in the time
we've covered movement there we've
covered strength we've covered the food
and gut the four others you've got in
this pillar one of them is um sleep
sleep so sleep can be elusive for folks
especially if they've got hormonal
issues and or they've got insulin
resistance and metabolic dysfunction
which drives the hormonal issues so it's
really important that
you you have to prioritize your sleep
but you have to protect your sleep and
when I say Protect it I mean are you
sleeping with a husband who's snoring
all night long are you in a really noisy
environment do you have to add ear plugs
in is it too bright in your room do you
have to put an eye mask on like what's
basic sleep hygiene get the TV out of
the room the TV is not helping you the
bedroom is for sex and sleep get the
husband out of the room
maybe well you know what people snore
when they're metabolically unsound and
they're overweight too so if we can get
the husband involved in the activities
then hopefully everybody gets better and
the snoring goes down so yes you'll get
a new husband I guess well yeah when I
was dating it was a big deal actually I
was like I would ask them on the first
date how's your sleep and if they they
said it was not good I'm like that's not
agreeable to me I'm not messing with
this so just really opt going to bed at
the same like be an adult be a grown-up
we put our kids to bed at a normal time
every day we have a rhythm with them
right they go to bed they get up the
same time every day we have to do that
with adults stop sleeping with your
phone by your head stop sleeping with it
in the room what about sleeping pills I
don't love sleeping pills I have used
them clinically I don't love ambian or
any of those types of drugs but there
are other options to help people get to
sleep we can use herbs I think pretty
well too but we have got to we've got to
do what we've got to do to reset the
sleep but I'll tell you number one if
your sleep is off and you're not
exercising every day I don't even want
to hear about it because if you're not
exhausting your energy like you would
your puppy or your child of course
you're not going to be able to sleep and
number two if your circadian rhythm is
screwed up if you're not getting out
that morning sunlight is so huge if
you're not getting out in the daylight I
know when it's gray in Oregon sometimes
it's gray all day long and I can't even
tell what time of day it is and I will
still go out there in a rain coat and
make sure I'm out in the daylight even
though it's gray as heck so that is
absolutely critical both of those things
will help improve your sleep why did you
include mind set as one of your six
because you have to believe that you're
going to accomplish this that goes into
the dopamine pathway it's a challenge
right this is my challenge this is and
and I mean Challenge in a good way I
think of it as a quest not as a negative
challenge right I don't want people to
ever feel like they're up against an
insurmountable wall I I heard that a lot
with covid when I was talking about
weight loss and metabolic optimization
people would say I have tooo much weight
to lose there's no point there's always
a point we can always start to decrease
inflammation and improve metabolic
Health even if the scale isn't shifting
it doesn't matter so we really have to
go into this with a Winner's
mindset we have to be goal oriented I'm
sure you could actually chime in on that
too like what are the things that you do
that drive you to get up and go do the
things that you do that might be hard or
challenging but you know they are what
you need to do to move the needle and
that's mindset it has to start there if
it doesn't start there if you don't make
a decision a concerted decision to
execute you're never going to get there
that's super difficult isn't it it is
cuz people are so riddled with their own
traumas and their own complex
psychological state that getting them to
shift their perspective on the world is
is like trying to convert a religious
person to another faith it is but I
think people are outcome oriented and I
I see the potential but that's where I
said remember short-term long-term goals
if I'm only focused on the outcome I'm
never going to get there and when I do
that dopamine's going to drop off and
I'm going to be like [__] I'm going to
fly you know just fly back to where I
was it's the short term it's the I want
to win I want to feel better I want a
better life for myself I want a better
life for my children I want to I want to
be a better person for the people around
me maybe people are single and they're
looking for someone I always get asked
that how' you find a great guy I'm like
you have to be a great person you have
to make yourself a great healthy person
to attract another great healthy person
so it's the journey it's not the
destination right that's just Health 101
it's the journey not the destination
interestingly in your um in your book
you don't have a chapter about this but
you've said in other situations that
saas have been a pretty critical uh
beneficial tool for you in your health
over the past couple of years yeah son
just getting hot like you can get hot in
a bathtub you can get hot through
exercise but just getting your body heat
up will induce heat shock proteins which
does so many great things for your brain
and immediately makes people feel better
people wonder often they go do some
aerobic exercise and they think it might
be the endorphins from the run and I'm
like if you turned into a sweaty mess
during that you got a whole bunch of
other benefits too right we moving lymph
we're removing blood it doesn't sound
that sexy but those heat shock proteins
are it they have a significantly
positive impact on our immune system
somewhere around 40% reduction in
pneumonia when induced so like do all
the things right just go get hot and
when I am out of sorts and my immune
system's flaring and I'm sort of at the
end of my wits and I don't know what to
do I just think I got to go cook the sh
out of
myself I just got to go get hot and get
sweaty and then generally the solution
comes to me or I have a better path
ahead of me right that a little bit of
light will come out ahead I'm like okay
that's the direction I have to go and so
sauna is a wonderful way to do it but I
know that's not available to everyone so
bathtubs just getting hot when you when
I look back through your childhood and
your teenage years and I see all this
pain you know um there's a lot of I've
had a lot of pain five years old you're
in hospital um nurses are forcing you
down as you go through your teenage
years you were in a really dark place
mentally you as you said you were res
suicidal and you tried to overdose on
medicine I think I was a early I was
talking to my husband about this the
other day I think I was a really early
version of what we're seeing with so
many young people today I think I was um
you know I was brought up on a lot of
ultra processed foods as ultr processes
they would have been in those days a lot
of Wonderbread and baloney and you know
Vita cheese I don't know what you have
here but you know like a processed
cheese blob and I think that my falling
apart of my health and my mental
wellbeing in my teenage years was a
direct result of just severe
malnutrition and Ultra processed food
addiction did you have ADHD as well yeah
they called it
hyperkinetic and you know what the
solution was they said get her a dog and
make sure she's always physically active
and keep her away from White Foods so
breads cookies crackers processed foods
right that was a process as it got and I
I always think of that old doctor in
that advice because it was perfect it
it's perfect whenever I have a patient
who's really ailing I'm like do you have
a dog it's really important that you
have a dog there's so many reasons but
it's it's just simple stuff and I think
what we're seeing now is a very extreme
version of that and so many young people
are really really really suffering and
my daughter was one of them and she's 24
and her friends are all so sick and have
such Health troubles and it's there's no
answers there's only just more drugs
their moms are sick their moms all have
autoimmune disease I mean it's just
devastating to me you know so to me you
say you know you mentioned like it's
hard when we're in this soup of toxins
but to me it's I'm P that's my push back
that is how I push back against the
system I want to infect as many people
as I can with the truth of their
responsibility of taking care of
themselves the best way that they can
and you don't have to do all of it all
at once like I said it's a journey so
just pick one thing like start with the
walks or start with the milk jugs and
the push-ups or the squatting your cat I
don't care whatever it is but start with
one thing and then start to build and
just start making these things habits
right just routine and habit routine and
habit and to me they're just
non-negotiable it's it's just the way it
is and that's the only way I I mean I'm
batshit crazy if I don't lift weights
and I don't eat well and I think a lot
of people are and I think we just
medicate them or we dismiss them or we
just sort allow them to sort of descend
further into the misery we can live with
neurod Divergence we can live with I
mean I do think I have a bit of neurod
Divergence as well or whatever they
would have called it back then but I I
think that we can live with these things
harmoniously and turn them into
superpowers so long as we take good care
of ourselves I had a whole career built
off of helping people with chronic pain
because I understood it because I had
lived with chronic pain my whole life
right like I intimately understood how
to help them and I thought outside the
box because I knew what it felt like and
I just wanted to help them and I I think
that that's what it comes down to and
you're in your early 30s but when you
get to your late 40s and you start
waking up and you're like oh so this is
what you know what it feels like
hopefully you'll become more proactive
that's when you really start getting
into it and then you start seeking out
other options maybe you maybe you will
need some bioidentical hormone
replacement then you know maybe you'll
you'll have a different perspective at
that point a bit as as you go and
experience it because we all do right we
can be vehemently one way and I'm not
saying are but a lot of people are
really dogmatic and I'm like okay well
like the people who really hate on OIC
I'm like well it's showing great promise
with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's I hope
you never need it if you're so
vehemently against it that you won't
even consider it you know I don't mean
you but just in general like be
open-minded and seek knowledge what is
the most important thing that you have
to share that maybe we haven't talked
about is there anything that we've
missed I would honestly just say always
seek knowledge
always be learning always be seeking
knowledge always be open-minded to
different things even if you've taken a
hard stance on something consider
alternatives and when you hear people
telling the truth or it sounds like
they're telling the truth double check
them look up sources don't just follow
influencers don't just follow what
someone says on Instagram or what
someone says on a podcast go look it up
and learn more I often are PL I'm
planting seeds for my audience often and
I will tell them something and they want
all the information right then and I'm
like no no no I'm trying to get you to
actually go look up more information I
want everyone in my audience to be a
knowledge Seeker because that is how you
learn and that is how you grow and
that's how you stay on top of it and
that's how you stay one step ahead right
I have a closing tradition on this
podcast as well where the last guest
leaves a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're going to be leaving
it for and the question left in the D
hero for you is
see when you reach the end of your life
what has brought you the most joy and is
that the thing you're most proud
of yes I have picked a hard path for
myself I
I I always try to be brave and tell the
truth as I know it and it's not always
popular and as my audience grows it gets
harder because I get more and more push
back but I refuse to step down when I
find something that can help people I
have dedicated my life to trying to get
that message out to as many people as I
can if it would be helpful to them and
so while it at times I've
felt like what have I done why why why
do I keep doing I feel like Jonah bark
at times you know I'm I'm the girl over
here with the early unpopular opinion
but I feel proud of that I know my
daughter is proud of me and I know that
I've helped a lot of people a lot I know
a lot of people have and they've come
back to me and said you saved my life in
one way or another and I'm really proud
of that and that's I just want to be of
service as best I can and my gift I I
think is uh taking complicated
information and explaining it
simplistically so that people can
Implement and while that's been hard and
challenging and I've received a ton of
push back that has aged me and made me
sick at times I'm really proud of that
Dr Tina Mo I find it so interesting you
know because
um it's an idea this idea of micro doing
as MC is not one that I've come across
before I discovered your work online and
I'm of the contingent where I like to
hear new ideas that maybe haven't had
all the clinical studies run on them
before but I like
to I like to imagine the possibilities
and then obviously there are scientists
that are going to do the research and
that that research is going to continue
for many decades to come but I'm I'm
intrigued by it I'm curious by it it
doesn't mean that I'm going to go on
Google and start micro doing myself in
my bedroom I'm absolutely not going to
do but I like I like how it assembles a
picture in my mind about this new thing
and the poal possibilities of this new
thing so that's why I wanted to have the
conversation today and I think as you've
clearly said everybody listening should
do their own research they should go out
there they should speak to their doctor
they should look at the studies that
we've cited today they should do their
own independent research to form their
own view but I think all progress starts
with these sort of initial hypothesis
these sort of anecdotal experiences and
then Society eventually catches up or
Society proves that that hypothesis was
something else or wrong in some way and
that's why I have these conversations
because I think it's you know when I
think handled in the right way and when
presented with the Nuance of all these
subjects they can be the start of a
snowball that can cause Society to start
asking questions and through that debate
and through that investigation we can
hopefully arrive at a better place and I
especially like these conversations when
I believe that someone's intent and
their intentions are so pure and so
well-intentioned and that's certainly
the case for you so thank you so much
for the work you're doing all the
wonderful people you've helped I've seen
so many hundreds of comments from people
that have um benefited from the work
that you do and I think that's a
remarkable thing and a Force for good in
the world so it's been a pleasure to
speak to you today and thank you for
making the journey despite the honeyed
disc thank you so much for having me
it's a true honor
[Music]
a